gcloud auth login and gcloud auth application-default login are two commands in the Google Cloud SDK used for authentication, but they serve different purposes. Here’s a comparison:

1. gcloud auth login

Purpose: Authenticates the user to use gcloud CLI commands and manage Google Cloud resources.
Scope: Provides credentials specifically for gcloud commands and tools like gsutil.
Use Case: This is best for managing Google Cloud resources from the command line (e.g., creating instances, managing storage).
Permissions: Grants the authenticated user’s IAM permissions, allowing them to perform actions on Google Cloud based on their role.
bash
Copy code
gcloud auth login
Example Usage:
After running this, you can use gcloud commands to manage resources.
Tokens are stored in the user’s active gcloud session for CLI-only use.


2. gcloud auth application-default login

Purpose: Authenticates with Application Default Credentials (ADC), which are used by applications or code running in Google Cloud to access resources programmatically.
Scope: Provides credentials that Google Cloud Client Libraries, such as Python or Node.js SDKs, use when the application interacts with Google Cloud services.
Use Case: Useful for development and testing code locally, simulating how code would authenticate in a production environment (e.g., Google Cloud Functions, App Engine).
Permissions: Also uses the user’s IAM permissions, but for application-level access.
bash
Copy code
gcloud auth application-default login
Example Usage:
Run this to allow local applications to authenticate without specifying credentials.
ADC credentials are stored in ~/.config/gcloud/application_default_credentials.json.
Key Differences:
Feature	gcloud auth login	gcloud auth application-default login
Purpose	CLI access to manage resources	Application access to Google Cloud services
Use Case	Command-line management	Application development and testing
Scope of Access	gcloud CLI commands	Google Cloud Client Libraries (programmatic)
Credential Storage	CLI session	application_default_credentials.json
Main Audience	Admins, developers managing resources	Developers writing/testing code
In general, use gcloud auth login for interactive CLI access, and gcloud auth application-default login for application-level authentication when working with Google Cloud Client Libraries.
