Assumptions:

region1 is the failed region
region2 is the surviving / healthy region

Unity pipeline apps are deployed in region-specific namespaces (e.g., unity-region1, unity-region2)
Cloud SQL is replicated from region1 (primary) to region2 (replica)
Kafka is stretched across both regions, with controller quorum still maintained

Step 1: Stop Workloads in Failed Region ( If Possible )
Jenkins Job: <name-stop>

Stop all Unity pipeline deployments in region1 namespaces
Scale down or delete any remaining pods (if still partially reachable)
Attempt to shut down Kafka brokers from region1 (if possible)
Optionally stop passive Cloud SQL replicas (only if resource cleanup is needed)

This prevents split-brain in Kafka and duplicated processing in Unity.
  
  
Step 2: Stop Workloads in  Healthy Region
Name: Jenkins Job <name-stop>

Purpose:
This job is responsible for gracefully shutting down all Unity pipeline workloads deployed in a specific region. It is a core step in the Disaster Recovery (DR) procedure, ensuring that the region is cleanly deactivated before failover or recovery operations.

Context:
  
Each Unity pipeline application is deployed directly into Kubernetes namespaces per region. No CI/CD tooling is involved. The infrastructure relies on:

Kafka clusters for messaging,
Unity pipeline applications as core workloads,
Cloud SQL as a backend database.

Scope of Execution:

The job operates across all Kubernetes namespaces within the selected region.
It identifies and stops all Unity pipeline deployments and their dependencies.
  
Components Stopped:

Kafka: All brokers and controllers in the region are terminated or scaled down.
Unity Pipeline Application: All associated pods and services are stopped by scaling deployments/statefulsets to zero.
Cloud SQL: Instances are stopped or disabled (when possible via API or Terraform).


Step 3: Promote Cloud SQL Replica in region2
Run this from a secure admin terminal:

gcloud sql instances promote-replica <cloudsql-instance-region2>
  
Promotes the Cloud SQL replica in region2 to become the new primary
Ensure application connection strings (if using PSC or private IP) resolve to the new primary

Wait for promotion to complete and ensure new instance is writable.


Step 4: Start Workloads in Surviving Region
Jenkins Job: <name-start>

Start Unity pipeline workloads in region2 (if not already running)
Ensure all deployments and services are scaled and healthy
Validate application logs and readiness/liveness probes
Your services are now active and running fully in region2.

Step 5: Update DNS / Internal Routing (if applicable)

If using DNS-based routing, update records to point to region2 services
If using internal service mesh or ingress, ensure routes prefer the healthy region
Validate application-level connectivity and Cloud SQL database access

Step 6: Monitor and Confirm Full Recovery

Monitor Unity pipelines for normal operation
Check Kafka metrics: consumer lag, partition states
Confirm Cloud SQL queries are executing properly
Alert stakeholders: recovery complete

  
Optional Step 7: Prepare for Re-integration of region1

Once region1 is restored:
  
Rejoin Kafka brokers (after safe broker reset or rebalance)
Create new Cloud SQL replica from region2 → region1
Deploy Unity workloads again (in standby mode or disabled)


  

  
